
# Module 2: Designing ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

# Lab: Designing ASP.NET MVC 5 Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **40 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

1. Ensure that you have cloned the 20486C directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles

### Exercise 1: Planning Model Classes


#### Task 1: Examine the initial investigation.

1. Go to **Allfiles\20486C\Mod02\Labfiles**, and then double-click **InitialInvestigation.docx**.
3. On the **View** tab of the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, in the **Show** group, ensure that the  **Navigation Pane** check box is selected.
4. In the Navigation pane, click **Introduction** to view the contents of the Introduction section.
5. In the Navigation pane, click **General Description of the Photo Sharing Application** to view the contents.
6. In the Navigation pane, click **Use Cases** to view the contents.
7. In the Navigation pane, under **Use Cases**, view all the Use Cases in the document.
8. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, review Figure 1: Use Case Summary.
9. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Plan the photo model class.

1. On the taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.
2. In the **Allfiles\20486C\Mod02\Labfiles** window, double-click **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx**.
3. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Model section.
4. In the MVC Model section, locate the **Table 1: MVC Model** table.
5. In the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, In the first row of the **Model Class** column, type **Photo**
6. In the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, In the first row of the **Description** column, type **The photo model class represents a photo that authenticated users can upload to the website.**
7. In the first row of the **Properties** column, type **PhotoID**
8. In the first row of the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**
9. In the second row of the **Properties** column, type **Title**
10. In the second row of the **Data Types** column, type **String**
11. In the third row of the **Properties** column, type **PhotoFile**
12. In the third row of the **Data Types** column, type **Binary**
13. In the fourth row of the **Properties** column, type **Description**
14. In the fourth row of the **Data Types** column, type **String**
15. In the fifth row of the **Properties** column, type **CreatedDate**
16. In the fifth row of the **Data Types** column, type **Date**
17. In the sixth row of the **Properties** column, type **Owner**
18. In the sixth row of the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**
19. In the **Model Class** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you have added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
20. In the **Description** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you have added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
21. Open **Visual studio 2017 - Community**.
22. Click **File**,  Click **New** , **Project**.
23. Click Visual C#, then click **WPF App (.Net framework)**, Click on the project name text box and then type **DesignProject** and then press **OK**.
24. On the **solution explorer**, right click on the **DesignProject** project file, Select **Add**, Press **New Item**.
25. On the top right corner of the window click on the search text box.
26. Enter "**Class Diagram**" inside the text box.
27. select the "**Class Diagram**" from the list and press **Add**.
28. If the toolbox window to the left of the screen is not open, Press **View** and then press **ToolBox**.
30. Inside the toolbox there is an object list. Drag the Class object from the toolbox into the main area.
31. In the class name textbox type **Photo** and press **OK**.
32. Right click the **Photo** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **PhotoID**.
33. Right click the **Photo** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **Title**.
34. Now right click the property and select **Class Details**.
>**Note:**  Notice that a class details window now opened. Also notice that the PhotoID property recieved by default the value of int.
35. Under the properties header there is a list of properties names. Select the property with the name **Title** 
36. Under the **Type** column there is a type of int. Double click on it and change it into **string**.
37. Right click the **Photo** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **PhotoFile**.
38. Under the **Class Details** window, under the properties header find the **PhotoFile** property, Double click on its type under the Type column, and  change its corresponding type to **byte**.
39. Right click the **Photo** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **Description**.
40. Under the **Class Details** window, find the property named **Description**, Double click, and change its corresponding type, to **string**.
41. Right click the **Photo** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **CreatedDate**.
42. Under the **Class Details** window, find the property named **CreatedDate**, and change its corresponding type, to **object**.
43. Right click the **Photo** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **Owner**.
44. Under the **Class Details** window, find the property named **Owner**, and change its corresponding type, to **string**.

#### Task 3: Plan the comment model class.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** icon.
2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Model section.
3. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **Table 1: MVC Model** table.
4.In the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, In the first row, Below the photo class you just created and merged, In the **Model Class** column, type **Comment**
4. In the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, In the first row Below the photo class description you just created and merged, In the **Description** column, type **The comment model class represents a comment that authenticated users can add to photos. This enables users to discuss others’ photos. Each comment is associated with just one photo.**
5. In the first row of the **Properties** column, type  **CommentID**
6. In the first row of the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**
7. In the second row of the **Properties** column, type **User**
8. In the second row of the **Data Types** column, type **String**
9. In the third row of the **Properties** column, type **Subject**
10. In the third row of the **Data Types** column, type **String**
11. In the fourth row of the **Properties** column, type **Body**
12. In the fourth row of the **Data Types** column, type **String**
13. In the fifth row of the **Properties** column, type **PhotoID**
14. In the fifth row of the **Data Types** column, type **Integer** 
15. In the **Model Class** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you have added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
16. In the **Description** column of the **Table 1: MVC Model** table, select all the rows adjacent to the properties you have added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
17. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.
18. On the taskbar, click the **DesignProject – Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
19. Now drag another **class** from the toolbox into the main area.
20. In the new window that opened click on the name textbox, type **Comment**. and click OK.
21. Click on the **Association** type from the toolbox, click on the **Photo** class and then on the comment class.
22. Click on the association, And then a textbox near it shows up that represents its name. Double click on it and change the value into PhotoComments, then press enter to finish.
23. In the Solution Explorer, Double click to open the Photo.cs class.
24. Locate the following code:
 ```cs
       public Comment PhotoComments
```
25. Replace the above code with the following code:
 ```cs
       public List<Comment> PhotoComments
```
26. Locate the following code:
 ```cs
       get => default(Comment);
```
27. Replace the above code with the following code:
 ```cs
       get => default(List<Comment>);
```
28. On the **Solution Explorer** window, open the file **ClassDiagram1.cd**.
29. Notice theres now a **PhotoComment** Property under the **photo** class, and that there is no association between the **photo** and **comment** classes.
30. Right click the **PhotoComment** Property and click the **Show as collection association** button.
 >**Note:**  Now a have a collection association between the photo class and the comment class.
31. Right click the **Comment** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**,  and name it **CommentID**.
32. Right click the **Comment** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**,  and name it **User**.
33. Under the **Class Details** window of the **Comment** class find the property named **Owner**, double click on its type under the Type column, and write **string**.
34. Right click the **Comment** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, double click on its type on the same row, and name it **Subject**.
35. Under the **Class Details** window of the **Comment** class find the property named **Owner**, double click on its type under the Type column, and write **string**.
36. Right click the **Comment** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **Body**.
37. Under the **Class Details** window of the **Comment** class find the property named **Owner**, double click on its type under the Type column, and write **string**.
38. Right click the **Comment** class, click **Add** and then click **Property**, and name it **PhotoID**.

### Exercise 2: Planning Controllers

#### Task 1: Plan the photo controller.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** icon.
2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **MVC Controllers** section.
3. In the **DetailedPlanning Document.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table.
4. In the first row of the **Controller** column, type **PhotoController**.
5. In the first row of the **Action** column, type **DisplayGallery (GET)**.
6. In the first row of the **Description** column, type **The action runs when the user requests the photo gallery page. The action obtains all the photos from the database and passes them to the DisplayGallery view.**
7. In the second row of the **Action** column, type **DisplayRecent (GET)**.
8. In the second row of the **Description** column, type **This action is similar to the DisplayGallery action except that only the most recent photos are obtained from the database. This smaller collection of photos is passed to the DisplayGallery view.**
9.  In the third row of the **Action** column, type **DisplayPhoto (GET)**.
10. In the third row of the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks a “Details” link for a photo in a gallery. The action obtains full details of a single photo from the database and passes it to the DisplayPhoto view.**
11. In the fourth row of the **Action** column, type **AddPhoto (GET)**.
12. In the fourth row of the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks a “Add a Photo” link. The action creates a new instance of the Photo model class and passes it to the AddPhoto view.** 
13. In the fifth row of the **Action** column, type **AddPhoto (POST)**.
14. In the fifth row of the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks “Save” in the AddPhoto view. The action saves the file and details of the new Photo to the database and redirects the user to the DisplayGallery view.** 
15. In the sixth row of the **Action** column, type **DeletePhoto (GET)**.
16. In the sixth row of the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks a “Delete this Photo” link in the DisplayPhoto view. The action displays the DeletePhoto view, which requests confirmation for the deletion.**  
17. In the seventh row of the **Action** column, type **DeletePhoto (POST)**.
18. In the seventh row of the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks “Delete” in the DeletePhoto view. The action deletes the current Photo, with its associate Comments, from the database and redirects the user to the DisplayGallery view.** 
19. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table, select all the rows adjacent to the **Action** column you just added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

#### Task 2: Plan the comment controller.

1. In the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table,  In the first row below the Photo controller you just added of the **Controller** column, type **CommentController**.
21. In the same row of the **CommentController** in the **Action** column, type **DisplayComments (GET)**.
22. In the same row of the **CommentController** in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the DisplayPhoto view is displayed. The action requires the current PhotoID as a parameter and uses it to get all the comments for the current Photo from the database. The action returns the _DisplayComments partial view. **
23. In the row blow it in the **Action** column, type **AddComment (GET)**.
24. In the same row it in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks the “Add a Comment” link in the DisplayPhoto view. The action creates a new instance of the Comment model class and sets its PhotoID to be the ID of the current Photo. It passes this new comment to the AddComment view. **
25. In the row blow it in the **Action** column, type **AddComment (POST)**.
26. In the same row it in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks “Submit” in the AddComment view. The action saves the details of the new comment in the database and redirects the user to the DisplayPhoto view. **
35. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table, select all the rows adjacent to the **Action** column you just added, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
36. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for controllers and configure their properties and data types.

### Exercise 3: Planning Views

#### Task 1: Plan the single photo view.

1. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the MVC Views section, and then locate the **Table 3: MVC Views** table.
2. In the first row of the **Controller** column, type **PhotoController**.
3. In the first row of the **View** column, type **DisplayGallery**
4. In the first row of the **Description** column, type **This view displays a collection of Photos at thumbnail size. For each photo the Title, Owner, and Created Date values are displayed**.
5. In the second row of the **View** column, type **DisplayPhoto**
6. In the second row of the **Description** column, type **This view displays a single Photo at full size. The Title and Owner are displayed above the photo. The Photo Description, Created Date, and other values are displayed beneath the photo. Under these details, all the Comments for the current Photo are listed, with an “Add a Comment” link**.
7. In the third row of the **View** column, type **AddPhoto**
8. In the third row of the **Description** column, type **This view displays a form with which the user can upload and describe a new Photo**.
9. In the fourth row of the **View** column, type **DeletePhoto**
10. In the fourth row of the **Description** column, type **This view displays a form with which the user can confirm a Photo deletion. The view displays details of the current Photo, such as its Title and Description**.
11. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 3: MVC Views** table, select all the rows adjacent to the actions you planned for **PhotoController**, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
13. In the second row of the **Controller** column, type **CommentController**.
14. In the same row of the CommentController at the **View** column, type **DisplayComments**
15. In the same row of the CommentController at the **Description** column, type **This partial view, which is used on the DisplayPhoto form, displays all the Comments associated with the current Photo**.
16. In the row below the row you just typed at the **View** column, type **AddComment**
17. In the same row at the **Description** column, type **This view displays a form with which the user can create a new comment for a specified Photo**.
18. In the **Controller** column of the **Table 3: MVC Views** table, select all the rows adjacent to the actions you planned for **CommentController**, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.
19. In the second row of the **Controller** column, merge the rows corresponding to the other controllers. 
20. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.

#### Task 2: Design the single photo view.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DesignProject – Microsoft Visual Studio** icon.
2. On the **solution explorer**, right click on the **DesignProject** project file, Select **Add**, Press **New Item**.
3. Select the **Window (WPF) **, press on the **Name** textbox below, write **SinglePhotoView** and press Add.
4. Ensure the the properties window is opened, if not press **View**, and then **Properties Window**.
5. On the designer main window, click on the window **grey** area title.
6. On the properties window, expand the **Layout** category.
7. On the the width textbox type 500, and on the height textbox type 600.
8. Under **Appearance** category change the windows style to **None**.
9. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the left top corner.
10. Under the **Common** category in the properties window, Change the textbox value near the **Content** text, into **Adventure Works Photo Sharing**.
11. Under the **Text** category change the text size into **20 px**.
12. Drag from the toolbox a **canvas** and put it just below the label.
13. On the properties window, just below the **Brush**, category, 
14. Under the brush category, click on the Background line.
15. Below the background line there are 5 tabs. pointing on a tab shows its name.
16. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. See the the **background** line is still selected.
17. Beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.
18. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 150.
19. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 175.
20. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 207.
21. Under the **layout** category in the **width** textbox, type 400.
22. Under the **layout** category in the **height** textbox, type 40.
23. drag into the canvas a **button** from the toolbox, and put it into the left side of the canvas.
24. In the properties window, under the **common** category, change the Content textbox value to **Home**.
25. Under the brush category, click on the Background line.
26. Below the background line, Beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.
27. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 31.
28. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 71
29. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 125
30. Under the brush category, click on the Foreground line.
31.  Below the Foreground line, Beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.
32. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 255.
33. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 255.
34. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 255.
35. Copy the Button and paste another one next to it. 
36. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **"Gallery"**.
37. Copy the Button and paste another one next to it. 
38. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **"Add a Photo"**.
39. Copy the Button and paste another one next to it. 
40. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **"Slideshow"**.
41. From the toolbox window, drag another **canvas**, and put it below the previous canvas, over the left side of the window. 
42. On the properties window, just below the **Brush**, category, 
43. Under the brush category, click on the Background line.
44. Below the background line there are 5 tabs. pointing on a tab shows its name.
45. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. See the the **background** line is still selected.
46. Beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.
47. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 150.
48. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 175.
49. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 207.
50. Under the **layout** category in the **width** textbox, type 150.
51. Under the **layout** category in the **height** textbox, type 190.
52. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the top left corner of the canvas you just added.
53. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **"Title"**.
54. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the canvas just below the previous label.
55. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **By: Owner**.
56. Drag an **Image** from the toolbox into the canvas just below the previous label.
57. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Source** text box into the value of **Allfiles\20486D\Mod02\Labfiles\NoImage.jpg**.
58. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the canvas just below the Image you just added.
59. On the properties window, under the **Common** category, Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Created On: Date**.
60. Copy the Canvas and paste it to the right of the current canvas.
61. Paste anothe copy below it, and another one beside it.
62. In the Top Menu Click **Save**.



#### Task 3: Plan the gallery view.

1. In the solution explorer rlight click on the **DesignProject** project file, select **Add** and then click **Window**.
2. Select from the list the **Window (WPF)**, in the Name textbox below the list type **PhotoGalleryView**, and then click the button **Add**.
3. On the designer main window, click on the window **grey** area title.
4. On the properties window, expand the **Layout** category.
5. On the the width textbox type 500, and on the height textbox type 1100.
6. Under **Appearance** category change the windows style to **None**.
7. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the left top corner.
8. Under the **Common** category in the properties window, Change the textbox value near the **Content** text, into **Adventure Works Photo Sharing**.
9. Under the **Text** category change the text size into **20 px**.
10. On the Solution Explorer window Double Click the **SinglePhotoView.xaml**.
11. select the top canvas from the window and right click it, then press copy.
12. On the solution explorer Double click the **PhotoGalleryView.xaml** and Right click the window, then click paste.
13. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the top left corner below the canvas you just pasted.
14. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **"Title"**.
15. On the properties window, under the **Text**, category Change the value of the text size text box into the value of **"20 px"**.
16. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the previous label.
17. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **By: Owner**.
18. Drag an **Image** from the toolbox into the canvas just below the previous label.
19. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Source** text box into the value of **Allfiles\20486D\Mod02\Labfiles\NoImage.jpg**.
20. Resize the image so it will take most of the page width, and and the photo will stay in the center.
21. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the Image.
22. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Description**.
23. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the other label you just added.
24. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Photo Description... **.
25. Under the **Layout** Category, click on the **Width** textbox, and type 300.
26. Under the **Layout** Category, click on the **Height** textbox, and type 150.
27. On the properties window, under the **Brush**, category, select the **BorderBrush** line.
Below it there are 5 tabs. Moving the mouse on each of them shows the tab name. Select the **solid color brush** tab.
28. In the opened tab to the right of the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes with leters besides them.
In each of the R, box, G box, and B box type the value of 0.
29. In the **appearance** category, there is an arrow toward down. Click on it and near the **Border Thickness**, there are 4 textboxes. Type in each of them the value of 2.
30. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the Image.
31. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Created On: Date**.
32. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window just below the Image.
33. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Comments:**.
34. Drag a **Canvas** from the toolbox into the main window just below the last added Label.
35. Set the canvas left area close to the left window border, and the right close to the right window border.
36. On the properties window, just below the **Brush**, category, click on the Background line.
37. Below the background, there are 5 tabs. Moving the mouse on each of them shows the tab name. Select the **solid color brush** tab.
38. Beside the color picker, there are 4 textboxes.
39. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 150.
40. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 175.
41. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 207.
42. Under the **Layout** Category, click on the **Width** textbox, and type 300.
43. Under the **Layout** Category, click on the **Height** textbox, and type 130.
45. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the canvas at the left top side.
46. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **From:**.
47. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the canvas at the left side just below the previous comment.
48. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Subject:**.
49. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the canvas at the left side just below the previous comment.
50. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category Change the value of the **Content** text box into the value of **Body:**.
51. Copy the canvas and paste it below the previous one.
52. Drag a **TextBlock** from the toolbox into the main window just blow the second comment canvas.
53. On the properties window, under the **Common**, category, Change the value of the **Content**  textbox into **Add a Comment**.
54. Under the **brush** category select the **Foreground** line.
55. Now select the **solid Brush** tab below it.
56. Beside the color picker box below the there are 4 textboxes.
57. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type in it 0.
58. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type in it 0.
59. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type in it 255.
60. Under the **Text** category, There is a U letter button with an underline below it. Press this U letter button.




    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will create proposals for views and their layouts.

### Exercise 4: Architecting an MVC Web Application

#### Task 1: Hosting options.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument(docx) - Microsoft Word** icon.

2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument(docx) - Microsoft Word** window, locate the Hosting Recommedations section, and then locate the Web Server section.
3. Under Web Server, type **The author recommends using Microsoft Azure to host the Photo Sharing application. Microsoft Azure can host any ASP.NET website, including the MVC application proposed in this document. Scaling is very simple because Microsoft, not Adventure Works, is responsible for adding server resources at times of high traffic. Costs are minimal: they depend on the amount of data served to visitors but it is not necessary to maintain our own hardware.**

#### Task 2: Choose a data store.

1. In the Database section of the **DetailedPlanningDocument(docx) - Microsoft Word** window, type **The author recommends using SQL Database, within Microsoft Azure, to host the Photo Sharing application underlying database. As for the web server, this recommendation ensures high-availability hosting for the database with good value for money.  This makes particular sense if the web site is hosted in Microsoft Azure. **

2. On the Quick Access Toolbar, click **Save**.

    >**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for hosting arrangements.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.


----------


