# Module 2: Designing ASP.NET Core MVC Web Applications

# Lab: Designing ASP.NET Core MVC Web Applications

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

Ensure that you have cloned the 20486D directory from GitHub (**https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486D-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles**). It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos.

### Exercise 1: Planning Model Classes

#### Task 1: Examine the initial investigation.

1. Go to **Allfiles\Mod02\Labfiles\01_DesignProject_begin**, and double-click **InitialInvestigation.docx**.

2. In the **View** tab of the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, in the **Show** section, ensure that **Navigation Pane** check box is selected.

3. In the **Navigation** pane, click **Introduction** and read the contents.

4. In the **Navigation** pane, click **General Description of the Photo Sharing Web Application** and read the contents.

5. In the **Navigation** pane, click **Use Cases** and read the contents.

7. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, review **Figure 1: Use Case Summary**.

8. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, click the **Close** button.


#### Task 2: Plan the photo model class.

1. On the taskbar, click **File Explorer**.

2. In the **Allfiles\Mod02\Labfiles\01_DesignProject_begin** window, double-click **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx**.

3. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **MVC Model** section.

4. In the **MVC Model** section, locate **Table 1: MVC Model**.

5. In **Table 1: MVC Model**, in row 1, in the **Model Class** column, type **Photo**.

6. In row 1, in the **Description** column, type **The photo model class represents a photo that authenticated users can upload to the website.**

7. In row 1, at the **Properties** column, type **PhotoID**.

8. In row 1, at the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**.

9. In row 2, at the **Properties** column, type **Title**.

10. In row 2, at the **Data Types** column, type **String**.

11. In row 3, at the **Properties** column, type **PhotoFile**.

12. In row 3, at the **Data Types** column, type **Binary**.

13. In row 4, at the **Properties** column, type **Description**.

14. In row 4, at the **Data Types** column, type **String**.

15. In row5, at the **Properties** column, type **CreatedDate**.

16. In row 5, at the **Data Types** column, type **DateTime**.

17. In row 6, at the **Properties** column, type **Owner**.

18. In row 6, at the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**.

19. In **Table 1: MVC Model**, in the **Model Class** column, select cells 1 to 6, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

20. In **Table 1: MVC Model**, in the **Description** column, select cells 1 to 6, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

    >**Note:** Keep the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window open for future tasks in this lab.

21. Start Visual Studio 2017.

22.	In the **Start Page - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **File** menu, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.

23.	In the navigation pane of the **New Project** dialog box, expand **Installed**, and then click **Visual C#**.

24.	In the result pane of the **New Project** dialog box, click **WPF App (.NET Framework)**.

25.	In the **Name** text box, type **DesignProject**.	

26. In the **Location** text box, ensure that the location specified is **Allfiles\20486D\20486D\Mod02\Labfiles**, and then click **OK**.

27. In **Solution Explorer** of the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **DesignProject**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Item**.

28. In the **Add New Item - DesignProject** dialog box, in the navigation pane, expand **Installed**, then expand **Visual C#**, and then click **General**.

29. In the **Add New Item - DesignProject** dialog box, in the **General** category, click **Class Diagram**.

30. In the **Add New Item - DesignProject** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **ModelDesign**, and then click **Add**.
 
31. If the toolbox window is not open, click **View**, and then click **Toolbox**.

32. In the toolbox window, expand **Class Designer**, and then drag **Class** into the code window.

33. In the **New Class** dialog box, in the **Class name** text box, type **Photo**, and then click **OK**.

34. In the **Solution Explorer** click **ModelDesign.cd**. 

34. Right-click the **Photo** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and name it **PhotoID**.

35. Right-click the **Photo** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and name it **Title**.

36. Right-click the **Title** property, and then select **Class Details**.

    >**Note:** Notice that a class details window is opened. Also notice that, by default, the PhotoID property is set to **int**.

37. On the **Class Details - Photo** tab, under the **properties** header, verify that the **Title** property is selected.

38. Under the **Type** column, locate **int**, and change it to **string**.

39. Right-click the **Photo** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and name it **PhotoFile**.

40. On the **Class Details - Photo** pane, under the **properties** header, locate the **PhotoFile** property, and then in the **Type** column, select **byte[]**.

41. Right-click the **Photo** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and name it **Description**.

42. On the **Class Details - Photo** pane, double-click the **Description** property, and then in the **Type** column, select **string**.

43. Right-click the **Photo** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and name it **CreatedDate**.

44. On the **Class Details - Photo** pane, locate the **CreatedDate** property, and then in the **Type** column, select **DateTime**.

45. Right-click the **Comment** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and name it **Owner**.

46. On the **Class Details - Photo** pane, locate the **Owner** property, and then in the **Type** column, select **string**.
    >**Note** Keep the **DesignProject – Microsoft Visual Studio** window open for future tasks in this lab.

47. In **Solution Explorer**, click **Photo.cs**.

48. In the **Title** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

49. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(string);
```

50. Within the **PhotoFile** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

51. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(byte[]);
```

52. Within the **Description** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

53. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(string);
```

54. Within the **CreatedDate** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

55. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(System.DateTime);
```

56. Within the **Owner** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

57. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(string);
```

#### Task 3: Plan the comment model class.

1. On the taskbar, click **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word**.

2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **MVC Model** section.

3. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **Table 1: MVC Model** table.

4. In **Table 1: MVC Model**, in row 7, in the **Description** column, type **Comment**.

5. In row 7, in the **Description** column, type **The comment model class represents a comment that authenticated users can add to photos. This enables users to discuss others’ photos. Each comment is associated with just one photo.**

6. In row 7, in the **Properties** column, type **CommentID**.

7. In row 7, in the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**.

8. In row 8, in the **Properties** column, type **User**.

9. In row 8, in the **Data Types** column, type **String**.

10. In row 9, in the **Properties** column, type **Subject**.

11. In row 9, in the **Data Types** column, type **String**.

12. In row 10, in the **Properties** column, type **Body**.

13. In row 10, in the **Data Types** column, type **String**.

14. In row 11, in the **Properties** column, type **PhotoID**.

15. In row 11, in the **Data Types** column, type **Integer**.

16. In **Table 1: MVC Model**, in the **Model Class** column, select cells 7 to 11, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

17. In **Table 1: MVC Model**, in the **Description** column, select cells 7 to 11, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

19. On the **FILE** menu of the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

20. On the taskbar, click **DesignProject – Microsoft Visual Studio**.

21. From the toolbox, drag another class into the **Class Designer** window.

22. In the new window that opened, click on the **Name** text box, type **Comment**, and then click **OK**.

23. In the **Toolbox** window, from the **Class Designer** list, click on the **Association** type from the toolbox, click on the **Photo** class, and then on the **Comment** class.

24. Double-click the text box representing the association name that is displayed near the association arrow, change the value to **PhotoComments**, and then press Enter to finish.

25. In **Solution Explorer** pane, click **Photo.cs**.

26. Select the following code:
```cs
    public Comment PhotoComments
```

26. Replace the selected code with the following code: 
```cs
    public List<Comment> PhotoComments
```

27. Select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(Comment);
```

28. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(List<Comment>);
```

29. In **Solution Explorer**, click **ModelDesign.cd**.
    >**Note:** Notice there is a **PhotoComments** property under the **Photo** class. There is no association between the **Photo** and **Comment** classes.

30. Right-click the **PhotoComments** property, and then click **Show as collection association**.
    >**Note:** See that the association has two arrowheads instead of one. It is a collection association between the **Photo** class and the **Comment** class. This indicates that the **Photo** class has a **PhotoComments** property that contains a collection of **Comment** objects.

31. In the **Class Designer** window, right-click the **Comment** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and then name it **CommentID**.

32. In the **Class Designer** window, right-click the **Comment** class, click **Add**, then click **Property**, and then name it **User**.

33. On the **Class Details - Comment** pane of the **Comment** class, find the **User** property, and in the corresponding **Type** text box, type **string**.

34. In the **Class Designer** window, right-click the **Comment** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and then name it **Subject**.

35. On the **Class Details - Comment** pane of the **Comment** class, find the **Subject** property, and in the corresponding **Type** text box, type **string**.

36. In the **Class Designer** window, right-click the **Comment** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and in then name it **Body**.

37. On the **Class Details - Comment** pane of the **Comment** class, find the **Body** property, and in the corresponding **Type** text box, type **string**.

38. In the **Class Designer** window, right-click the **Comment** class, click **Add**, click **Property**, and then name it **PhotoID**.

39. In **Solution Explorer**, click **Comment.cs**.

40. Within the **Owner** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

41. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(string);
```

42. Within the **Subject** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

43. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(string);
```

44. Within the **Body** property code block, select the following code:
```cs
    get => default(int);
```

45. Replace the selected code with the following code:
```cs
    get => default(string);
```

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for a model, and configure the properties and data types of the model classes.

### Exercise 2: Planning Controllers

#### Task 1: Plan the photo controller.

1. On the taskbar, click **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word**.

2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate the **MVC Controllers** section.

3. In the **DetailedPlanning Document.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate **Table 2: MVC Controllers**.

4. In **Table 2: MVC Controllers**, in row 1, in the **Controller** column, type **PhotoController**.

5. In row 1, in the **Action** column, type **DisplayGallery (GET)**.

6. In row 1, in the **Description** column, type **The action runs when the user requests the Photo Gallery page. The action obtains all the photos from the database and passes them to the DisplayGallery view.**

7. In row 2, in the **Action** column, type **DisplayRecent (GET)**.

8. In row 2, in the **Description** column, type **This action is similar to the DisplayGallery action except that only the most recent photos are obtained from the database. This smaller collection of photos is passed to the DisplayGallery view**.

9. In row 3, in the **Action** column, type **DisplayPhoto (GET)**.

10. In row 3, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks a photo's “Details” link in a gallery. The action obtains full details of a single photo from the database and passes it to the DisplayPhoto view.**

11. In row 4, in the **Action** column, type **AddPhoto (GET)**.

12. In row 4, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks an “Add a Photo” link. The action creates a new instance of the Photo model class and passes it to the AddPhoto view.** 

13. In row 5, in the **Action** column, type **AddPhoto (POST)**.

14. In row 5, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks “Save” in the AddPhoto view. The action saves the file and details of the new photo to the database and redirects the user to the DisplayGallery view.** 

15. In row 6, in the **Action** column, type **DeletePhoto (GET)**.

16. In row 6, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks a “Delete this Photo” link in the DisplayPhoto view. The action displays the DeletePhoto view, which requests confirmation for the deletion.**

17. In row 7, in the **Action** column, type **DeletePhoto (POST)**.

18. In row 7, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks “Delete” in the DeletePhoto view. The action deletes the current photo, with its associated comments from the database and redirects the user to the DisplayGallery view.** 

19. In **Table 2: MVC Controllers**, in the **Controller** column, select cells 1 to 7, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

#### Task 2: Plan the comment controller.

1. In the **Table 2: MVC Controllers** table, in the **Cntroller** column, in row 8, below **PhotoController**, type **CommentController**.

2. In **Table 2: MVC Controllers**, in row 8, in the **Action** column, type **DisplayComments (GET)**.

3. In row 8, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the DisplayPhoto view is displayed. The action requires the current PhotoID as a parameter and uses it to get all the comments for the current Photo from the database. The action returns the _DisplayComments partial view.**

4. In row 9, in the **Action** column, type **AddComment (GET)**.

5. In row 9, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks the “Add a Comment” link in the DisplayPhoto view. The action creates a new instance of the Comment model class and sets its PhotoID to be the ID of the current Photo. It passes this new comment to the AddComment view.**

6. In row 10, in the **Action** column, type **AddComment (POST)**.

7. In row 10, in the **Description** column, type **This action runs when the user clicks “Submit” in the AddComment view. The action saves the details of the new comment in the database and redirects the user to the DisplayPhoto view.**

8. In **Table 2: MVC Controllers**, in the **Controller** column, select cells 8 to 10, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

9. On the **FILE** menu of the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Word** window, click **Save**.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for controllers, and configure their properties and data types.

### Exercise 3: Planning Views

#### Task 1: Define the views.

1. On the taskbar, click **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word**.

2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Microsoft Word** window, locate **MVC Views** section, and then locate **Table 3: MVC Views**.

3. In row 1, in the **Controller** column, type **PhotoController**.

4. In row 1, in the **View** column, type **DisplayGallery**.

5. In row 1, in the **Description** column, type **This view displays a collection of photos in the thumbnail size. For each photo the Title, Owner, and Created Date values are displayed.**

6. In row 2, in the **View** column, type **DisplayPhoto**.

7. In row 2, in the **Description** column, type **This view displays a single photo in full size. The Title and Owner values appear above the photo. The Photo Description, and other values appear beneath the photo. Under these details, all the comments for the current photo are listed with an “Add a Comment” link**.

8. In row 3, in the **View** column, type **AddPhoto**.

9. In row 3, in the **Description** column, type **This view displays a form that the user can use to upload and describe a new photo**.

10. In row 4, in the **View** column, type **DeletePhoto**.

11. In row 4, in the **Description** column, type **This view displays a form that the user can use to confirm the deletion of a photo. The view displays details of the current photo such as its title and description**.

12. In **Table 3: MVC Views**, in the **Controller** column, select cells 1 to 4, right-click, and then click **Merge Cells**.

13. In row 5, in the **Controller** column, type **CommentController**.

14. In row 5, in the **View** column, type **DisplayComments**.

15. In row 5, in the **Description** column, type **This partial view, which is used on the DisplayPhoto form, displays all the Comments associated with the current Photo**.

16. In row 6, in the **View** column, type **AddComment**.

17. In row 6, in the **Description** column, type **This view displays a form with which the user can create a new comment for a specified Photo**.

18. In **Table 3: MVC Views**, in the **Controller** column, select cells 5 to 6, right-click, then click **Merge Cells**.

19. On the **FILE** menu of the **DetailedPlanningDocument.docx - Word** window, click **Save**.


#### Task 2: Design the single photo view.

1. On the taskbar, click **DesignProject – Microsoft Visual Studio**.

2. In Solution Explorer of the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **DesignProject**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Item**.

3. In the **Add New Item – DesignProject** dialog box, click **Window (WPF)**.

4. In the **Name** text box of the **Add New Item – DesignProject** dialog box, type **SinglePhotoView**, and then click **Add**.

5. In  the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **View** menu, click **Properties Window**.

6. In the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **View** menu, point to **Other Windows**, and then click **Document Outline**.

7. In **Document Outline** window, click on the "**[Window]**" row.

8. In the **Properties** window, below the **Type** text, there is **Arrange By**. Make sure it is set to **Arrange By: Category**.

9. In the **Properties** window, expand the **Layout** category.

10. In the **Width** textbox type 500, and in the **Height** textbox type 1100.

11. In the **Properties** window, under the **Appearance** category change the **WindowStyle** to **None**.

12. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the main window below the left top corner.

13. In the Properties window, under the **Common** category,  change the textbox value near the **Content** text, to **Adventure Works Photo Sharing**.

14. Under the **Text** category in the **Properties** window, change the text size to **20 px**.

15. Drag a **Canvas** from the toolbox into the main window below the label (Aligned with the left side of the label).

16. In the **Properties** window, under the **Brush** category, click the **Background** text to select this line.

17. Below the **Background** line there are 5 tabs. Hovering on a tab shows its name.

18. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. Ensure that the **background** line is still selected.

19. Beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.

20. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, type 150.

21. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, type 175.

22. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, type 207.

23. Under the **Layout** category in the **Width** textbox, type 400.

24. Under the **Layout** category in the **Height** textbox, type 40.

25. Verify that the canvas is selected, drag a **Button** from the toolbox, into the left side of the **Canvas**.

26. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the **Content** textbox value to **Home**.

27. Under the **Brush** category, click on the **Background** text to select this line.

28. Below the **Background** line, beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.

29. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, type 31.

30. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, type 71.

31. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, type 125.

32. Under the **Brush** category, click on the **Foreground** text to select this line.

33. Below the **Foreground** line, beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.

34. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, type 255.

35. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, type 255.

36. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, type 255.

37. Copy the **Button**, and Paste it. It will apear just over the current button. Move it  to the right side of the current button.

38. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Gallery**.

39. Copy the **Button**, and Paste it. It will apear just over the current button. Move it  to the right side of the current button.

40. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Add a Photo**.

41. Copy the **Button**, and Paste it. It will apear just over the current button. Move it  to the right side of the current button.

42. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Slideshow**.

43. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the top left corner below the last canvas you pasted.

44. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Title**.

45. In the **Properties** window, under the **Text** category, change the value of the text size textbox to the value of **"20 px"**.

46. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window below the previous label.

47. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **By: Owner**.

48. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **DesignProject – Microsoft Visual Studio window**, right-click on the **DesignProject** project file, point to **Add**, and then click **Existing item**.
    
49. In the **Add Existing Item – DesignProject** dialog box, change the file type drop box to show **All Files (*.*)**, go to this following path **Allfiles\Mod02\Labfiles\01\_DesignProject\_begin**, and select the **photo.jpg** file. and then click **Add**.

50. Drag an **Image** from the toolbox into the main window below the previous label.

51. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Source** textbox to **photo.jpg**, and press **Enter**.

52. Under the **Layout** category in the **Width** textbox, type 400.

53. Under the **Layout** category in the **Height** textbox, type 240.

54. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window below the left side of the Image.

55. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Description**.

56. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window below the other label you just added.

57. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Photo Description...**.

58. Under the **Layout** category, click on the **Width** textbox, and type 300.

59. Under the **Layout** category, click on the **Height** textbox, and type 150.

60. In the Properties window, under the **Brush** category, click the **BorderBrush** text to select this line.

61. Below the **BorderBrush** line there are 5 tabs. Hovering on a tab shows its name.

62. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. Ensure that the BorderBrush line is still selected.

63. Beside the color picker, there are 4 textboxes.

64. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 150.

65. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 175.

66. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 207.

67. In the **Appearance** category, there is an arrow pointing down. Click on it, and near the **Border Thickness**, there are 4 textboxes. Type in each of them the value of 2.

68. Drag another **Label** from the toolbox into the main window below the left side of the **Photo Description** label.

69. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Comments:**.

70. Drag a **Canvas** from the toolbox into the main window below the last added **Label**.

71. Set the **Canvas** left side, just below the **Photo Description** label's left side.

72. In the Properties window, under the **Brush** category, click the **Background** text to select this line.

73. Below the **Background** line there are 5 tabs. Hovering on a tab shows its name.

74. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. Ensure that the Background line is still selected.

75. Beside the color picker, there are 4 textboxes.

76. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 150.

77. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 175.

78. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 207.

79. Under the **Layout** category, click on the **Width** textbox, and type 300.

80. Under the **Layout** category, click on the **Height** textbox, and type 130.

81. Verify that the canvas is selected, drag a **Label** from the toolbox, into the left top side of the Canvas.

82. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **From:**.

83. Verify that the canvas is selected, drag a **Label** from the toolbox, into the Canvas, and place the new Label below the previous Label.

84. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Subject:**.

85. Verify that the canvas is selected, drag a **Label** from the toolbox, into the Canvas, and place the new Label below the previous Label.

86. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Body:**.

87. Copy the **Canvas**, and paste it below the last copied canvas.

88. Drag a **TextBlock** from the toolbox into the main window, under last copied canvas.

89. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to **Add a Comment**.

90. In the **Properties** window, under the **Brush** category, click the **Foreground** text to select this line.

91. Below the **Foreground** line there are 5 tabs. Hovering on a tab shows its name.

92. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. Ensure that the Foreground line is still selected.

93. Beside the color picker, there are 4 textboxes.

94. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, Type 0.

95. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, Type 0.

96. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, Type 255.

97. Under the **Text** category, There is a **U** letter button with an underline below it. Press this **U** letter button.

98. On the **FILE** menu of the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**. 

#### Task 3: Design the gallery view.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **DesignProject**, point to **Add**, and then click **Window**.

2.	In the **Add New Item – DesignProject** dialog box, click **Window (WPF)**, in the **Name** text box, type **PhotoGalleryView**, and then click **Add**.

3. In the Add New Item – **DesignProject** dialog box, click **Window (WPF)**.

4. In the Name box of the **Add New Item – DesignProject** dialog box, type **PhotoGalleryView**, and then click **Add**.

5. In **Document Outline** window, click on the "**[Window]**" row.

6. In the **Properties** window, Verify that near the **Type** text, the word **Window** is shown.

7. Under the **Layout** category, click on the Width textbox, and type 500.

8. Under the **Layout** category, click on the Height textbox, and type 600.

9. In the Properties window, under the **Appearance** category change the **WindowStyle** to **None**.

10. Drag a **Label** from the toolbox to the  the top left corner of the **Class Designer** window.

11. In the Properties window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Adventure Works Photo Sharing**.

12. Under the **Text** category in the **Properties** window, change the text size to **20 px**.

13. In **Solution Explorer**, click the **SinglePhotoView.xaml**.

14. Select the top **Canvas** in the **Class Designer** window, right-click it, and then press **Copy**.

15. In **Solution Explorer**, click the **PhotoGalleryView.xaml**. 

16. In the **Class Designer** window, In the designed window right-click an empty area, and then click Paste.

17. From the toolbox window, drag another **Canvas**, and place it below the previous canvas, over the left side of the window. 

18. In the **Properties** window, under the **Brush** category, click in the **Background** text to select this line.

19. Below the **Background** line there are 5 tabs. Hovering on a tab show's its name.

20. Click on the **Solid color brush** tab. Ensure that the **Background** line is still selected.

21. Beside the color picker box, there are 4 textboxes.

22. Next to the **R**, in the textbox, type 150.

23. Next to the **G**, in the textbox, type 175.

24. Next to the **B**, in the textbox, type 207.

25. Under the **Layout** category in the **Width** textbox, type 150.

26. Under the **Layout** category in the **Height** textbox, type 190.

27. Verify that the last created canvas is selected, drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the Canvas, and place the new Label in the top left corner of the canvas.

28. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Title**.

29. Verify that the last created canvas is selected, drag a **Label** from the toolbox, into the Canvas, and place the new Label in the top left corner of the canvas.

30. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **By: Owner**.

31. Verify that the canvas is selected, drag a **Image** from the toolbox into the Canvas, and place the Image below the labels.

32. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Source** textbox to **photo.jpg**, and press **Enter**.

33. Under the **Layout** category in the **Width** textbox, type 100.

34. Under the **Layout** category in the **Height** textbox, type 100.

35. Verify that the canvas is selected, drag a **Label** from the toolbox into the Canvas, and place the new Label below the image.

36. In the **Properties** window, under the **Common** category, change the value of the **Content** textbox to the value of **Created On: Date**.

37. Right-click on the last created canvas, and click **Copy**.

38. In the **Class Designer** window, In the **designed window** right-click an empty area, and then click Paste.    
>**Note**: Notice that the pasted **Canvas** may covers the original canvas.

39. Move the pasted **Canvas** to the right side of the original canvas.

40.  In the **Class Designer** window, In the designed window right-click an empty area, and then click Paste.    
>**Note**: Notice that the pasted **Canvas** may covers the original canvas.

41. Move the pasted **Canvas** to bellow of the previous pasted canvas.

42. In the **Class Designer** window, right-click an empty area inside the designed window, then click **Paste**.    
>**Note**: Notice that the pasted **Canvas** may covers the original canvas.

43. Move the pasted **Canvas** to left of the last pasted canvas.

44. On the **FILE** menu of the **DesignProject - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.


>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will create proposals for views and their layouts.

### Exercise 4: Architecting an MVC Web Application

#### Task 1: Hosting options.

1. On the taskbar, click the **DetailedPlanningDocument - Microsoft Word** icon.

2. In the **DetailedPlanningDocument - Microsoft Word** window, locate the Hosting Recommendations section, and then locate the Web Server section.

3. Under Web Server, type **The author recommends using Microsoft Azure to host the Photo Sharing application. Microsoft Azure can host any ASP.NET website, including the ASP.NET Core MVC application proposed in this document. Scaling is very simple because Microsoft, not Adventure Works, is responsible for adding server resources at times of high traffic. Costs are minimal: they depend on the amount of data served to visitors but it is not necessary to maintain our own hardware.**

#### Task 2: Choose a data store.

1. In the Database section of the **DetailedPlanningDocument - Microsoft Word** window, type **The author recommends using SQL Database, within Microsoft Azure, to host the Photo Sharing application underlying database. As for the web server, this recommendation ensures high-availability hosting for the database with good value for money.  This makes particular sense if the web site is hosted in Microsoft Azure.**

2. In the **InitialInvestigation.docx - Microsoft Word** window, click the **Close** button. 

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to create proposals for hosting arrangements.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.
This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

----------

