# Module 14: Hosting and Deployment

# Lab: Hosting and Deployment

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

1. Ensure that you have cloned the **20486D** directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. 
**(https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486D-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles)**

### Exercise 1: Deploying a Web Application to Microsoft Azure

#### Task 1: Explore and run the application locally

1. Navigate to **Allfiles\Mod14\Labfiles\01_Underwater_begin**, and then double-click **UnderWater.sln**.

2. In the **UnderWater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **TOOLS** menu, point to **NuGet Package Manager**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.

3. In **Package Manager Console** tab, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```cs
      Update-Database
    ```
4. In the **UnderWater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **VIEW** menu, click **SQL Server Object Explorer**.

5. In the **UnderWater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **SQL Server Object Explorer**, expand **(localdb)\MSSQLLocalDB**, expand **Databases**, and then expand **UnderWaterDb**.

>**Note:** In the **UnderWater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **SQL Server Object Explorer**, view the **UnderWaterDb** tables.

6. In the **UnderWater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **DEBUG** menu, click **Start Without Debugging**.

7. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Add Fish**.
 
8. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Aquarium** list, select _&lt;A aquarium of your choice&gt;._

9. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Fish Name** text box, type _&lt;A fish name of your choice&gt;._

10. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Scientific Name** text box, type _&lt;A Scientific Name of your choice&gt;._

11. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Picture** file choose, select _&lt;A fish picture of your choice&gt;._

#### Task 2: Create a new Web App in Microsoft Azure

1. Open **Microsft Edge**

2. In **Microsoft Edge**, in the address bar type **http://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.

3. Sign-in, and then click **App Services**.

4. In the **App Services** window, click **Add**

5. In the **web** window click **Web App + SQL**, and then click **Create**

6. In the **Web App + SQL -> Create** window, type **Underwater{unique name}** in **App Name** text box.
    >**Note:** The name must be unique. You can add your first name, last name or birthdate to the current name.

7. In the **Web App + SQL -> Create** window, click **SQL Database Configure required settings**.

8. In the **Database** pane, click **Create a new database**.

9. In the **SQL Database** pane, type **UnderWaterDB** in **Name**

10. In the **SQL Database** pane, click **Target Server Configure required settings**.

11. In the **New Server** pane, type **Underwater{unique name}** in **Server Name** text box.
    >**Note:** The name must be unique. You can add your first name, last name or birthdate to the current name.

12. In the **New Server** pane, type **underwateradmin** in **Server admin login** text box.


13. In the **New Server** pane, type **p@@sw0rd** in **Password** text box.

13. In the **New Server** pane, type **p@@sw0rd** in **Confirm password** text box.

14. In the **New Server** pane, click **Select**.

15. In the **SQL Database** pane, click **Select**.

16. In the **Web App + SQL -> Create** window,click **Create**.


#### Task 3: Prepare the application for deployment

1. In Microsoft Visual Studio 2017, open **Solutions Explorer**, right click **Underwater** and click **Edit Underwater.csproj**

2. In **Underwate.csproj**, add the following code under <PropertyGroup>
```cs 

  <ItemGroup>
         <Content Include="node_modules\**" CopyToPublishDirectory="PreserveNewest" />
  </ItemGroup>

```

3. In Microsoft Visual Studio 2017, open **Solutions Explorer**, right click **Underwater** and click **Publish**

4. In the **Pick a publish target** dialog box, in the navigation pane, click **App Service**.

5. In the **Pick a publish target** dialog box, in the result pane, click **Select Existing**, and then expand **Publish** and click **Create New**.

6. In the **App Service** dialog box, click **Sign in**. 
    >**Note:** In case you have already signed-in, you will not see this dialog box. In this case, go to step 10.

7. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, type azure account **Email/Phone/Skype**, and then click **Next**. 

8. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, type **Password**, and then click **Sign in**.

9. In the **App Service** dialog box, expand **Underwater{unique name}**, and then select **UnderWater{unique name}**.

10. Click **Configure**.

11. In the **Publish** window, click **Settings**

12. In the **Publish** window, expand **Databases**.

13. In the  **Publish** window, under the **Default Connection String**, select the checkbox **Use this connection string at runtime**.

14. In the  **Publish** window, in the textbox below **Default Connection String**, type:
    ```cs

        Server=tcp:Underwater{unique name}.database.windows.net,1433;Initial Catalog=UnderWaterDB;Persist Security Info=False;User ID=azurelab;Password=azure@1234;MultipleActiveResultSets=False;Encrypt=True;TrustServerCertificate=False;Connection Timeout=30;

    ```

15. In the **Publish** window, expand **Entity Framework Migration**, and select **Apply this migration on publish**.

16. In the **Publish** window, expand **Entity Framework Migration**, and in the textbox below **Apply this migration on publish**, type:
    ```cs

        Server=tcp:Underwater{unique name}.database.windows.net,1433;Initial Catalog=UnderWaterDB;Persist Security Info=False;User ID=azurelab;Password=azure@1234;MultipleActiveResultSets=False;Encrypt=True;TrustServerCertificate=False;Connection Timeout=30;

    ```

17. In the **Publish** window, Click **Save**.

#### Task 4: Deploy and explore the application

1. In the **UnderWater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window,in the **Publish** window, click on **Publish**

2. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Add Fish**.
 
3. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Aquarium** list, select _&lt;A aquarium of your choice&gt;._

4. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Fish Name** text box, type _&lt;A fish name of your choice&gt;._

5. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Scientific Name** text box, type _&lt;A Scientific Name of your choice&gt;._

6. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Picture** file choose, select _&lt;A fish picture of your choice&gt;._

7. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Fish Picture** box, import an image from ** **, and then click **Submit**.

8. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, verify the newly submitted fish details.

9. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select a fish of your choice, and then click **Details**.

10. View the fish details, and then click **Back to List**.

11. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select a fish of your choice, and then click **Edit**.

12. On the **Edit a Fish** page, in the **Scientic Name** text box, type _&lt;A Scientific Name of your choice&gt;_ , and then click **Save**.

13. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select the fish you edited, and then click **Details**.

14. On the **Fish Details** page, verify the newly edited fish details, and then click **Back to List**.

15. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select a fish of your choice, and then click **Delete**.

16. On the **Fish Delete** page, click **Delete**.

17. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, verify that the cupcake deleted.

18. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Close**.


#### Task 5: Update the application and deploy in Microsoft Azure

1. In the **Underwater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, expand **Models**, and double-click **Fish.cs**.

2. In the **Fish.cs** code block, locate the following code:
  ```cs
       [Display(Name = "Scientific Name:")]
        public string ScientificName { get; set; }
```

3. Place the cursor after } (curly braces) , press enter and then type the following code:
```cs
       [Display(Name = "Fish Type:")]
        public string FishType { get; set; }

```

4. In the **Underwater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, expand **Views**, expand **Aquarium**, and then click **Details.cshtml**.

5. In the **Details.cshtml** code window, locate the following code:
  ```cs
       <div>
            <p class="display-label">
                @Html.DisplayNameFor(model => model.ScientificName)
            </p>
            <br />
            <p class="display-field">
                @Html.DisplayFor(model => model.ScientificName)
            </p>
        </div>
```
6. Place the cursor after the > (greater than) sign of the **&lt;/div&gt;** tag, press Enter, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
      <div>
            <p class="display-label">
                @Html.DisplayNameFor(model => model.FishType)
            </p>
            <br />
            <p class="display-field">
                @Html.DisplayFor(model => model.FishType)
            </p>
        </div>
```

In the **Underwater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, under **Views**, under **Aquarium**, click **Edit.cshtml**.

7. In the **Edit.cshtml** code window, locate the following code:
  ```cs
      <div class="form-group row">
                    <label asp-for="ScientificName" class="col-sm-6 col-form-label"></label>
                    <div class="col-sm-6">
                        <input asp-for="ScientificName" type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Scientific Name" required>
                        <span asp-validation-for="ScientificName"></span>
                    </div>
        </div>
```
8. Place the cursor after the > (greater than) sign of the **&lt;/div&gt;** tag, press Enter, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
      <div class="form-group row">
                    <label asp-for="FishType" class="col-sm-6 col-form-label"></label>
                    <div class="col-sm-6">
                        <input asp-for="FishType" type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Fish Type" required>
                        <span asp-validation-for="FishType"></span>
                    </div>
        </div>
```
9. In the **Underwater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, under **Views**, under **Aquarium**, click **Create.cshtml**.

10. In the **Create.cshtml** code window, locate the following code:
  ```cs
       <div class="form-group row">
                    <label asp-for="ScientificName" class="col-sm-6 col-form-label"></label>
                    <div class="col-sm-6">
                        <input asp-for="ScientificName" type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Scientific Name" required>
                        <span asp-validation-for="ScientificName"></span>
                    </div>
                </div>
```
11. Place the cursor after the > (greater than) sign of the **&lt;/div&gt;** tag, press Enter, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
     <div class="form-group row">
                    <label asp-for="FishType" class="col-sm-6 col-form-label"></label>
                    <div class="col-sm-6">
                        <input asp-for="FishType" type="text" class="form-control" placeholder="Fish Type" required>
                        <span asp-validation-for="FishType"></span>
                    </div>
    </div>
```
12. In the **Underwater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **TOOLS** menu, point to **NuGet Package Manager**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.

13. In **Package Manager Console** tab, type the following command, and then press Enter.
  ```cs
      Add-Migration AddFishFishType
```
>**Note:** Verify in the **Underwater - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, under **Migrations**, a new file created.

14. In Microsoft Visual Studio 2017, open **Solutions Explorer**, right click **Underwater** and click **Publish**

15. In the **Pick a publish target** dialog box, verify that **Underwater {unique name}** is selected in the drop down, and then click **Publish**.

16. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Add Fish**.
 
17. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Aquarium** list, select _&lt;A aquarium of your choice&gt;._

18. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Fish Name** text box, type _&lt;A fish name of your choice&gt;._

19. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Scientific Name** text box, type _&lt;A Scientific Name of your choice&gt;._

20. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Fish Type** textbox, type _&lt;A fish type of your choice&gt;._

21. On the **Add a Fish to the Aquarium** page, in the **Fish Picture** box, import an image from ** **, and then click **Submit**.

22. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, verify the newly submitted fish details.

23. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select a fish of your choice, and then click **Details**.

24. View the fish details, and then click **Back to List**.

25. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select a fish of your choice, and then click **Edit**.

26. On the **Edit a Fish** page, in the **Scientic Name** text box, type _&lt;A Scientific Name of your choice&gt;_ , and then click **Save**.

27. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select the fish you edited, and then click **Details**.

28. On the **Fish Details** page, verify the newly edited fish details, and then click **Back to List**.

29. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, select a fish of your choice, and then click **Delete**.

30. On the **Fish Delete** page, click **Delete**.

31. On the **Welcome to our Aquarium** page, verify that the cupcake deleted.

32. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Close**.


### Exercise 2: Upload an Image

#### Task 1: Create a blob storage account


#### Task 2: Write the code to upload an image


#### Task 3: Deploy the application


#### Task 4: Run the application in Microsoft Azure


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. 

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
