# Module 13: Implementing Web APIs

# Lab: Implementing Web APIs

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

1. Ensure that you have cloned the **20486D** directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. 
**(https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486D-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles)**

### Exercise 1: Adding Actions and Call them using Microsoft Edge

#### Task 1: Add an action to a Web API application

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click **Server**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Folder**.

2. In the **NewFolder** text box, type **Controllers**, and then press Enter.

3. In the **Restaurant - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, under **Server** right-click the **Controllers** folder, point to **Add**, and then click **Controller**.

4. In the **Add Scaffold** dialog box, click **API Controller - Empty**, and then click **Add**.

5. In the **Add Empty API Controller** dialog box, in the **Controller name** text box, type **RestaurantBranchesController**, and then click **Add**.

6. In the **RestaurantBranchesController.cs** code window, locate the following code:
  ```cs
       using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
```
7. Ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc** namespace, press Enter, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
       using Server.Data;
       using Server.Models;
```

8. In the **RestaurantBranchesController.cs** code window, place the cursor after the second **{** (opening braces) sign, press Enter, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
       private RestaurantContext _context;

       public RestaurantBranchesController(RestaurantContext context)
       {
           _context = context;
       }
```
9. Ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **RestaurantBranchesController** constructor code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
       [HttpGet]
       public ActionResult<List<RestaurantBranch>> Get()
       {
       }
```
10. In the **Get** action code block, type the following code:
  ```cs
       return _context.RestaurantBranches.ToList();
```

#### Task 2: Run the application

1. In the **WebApiExample - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **FILE** menu, click **Save All**.

2. In the **WebApiExample - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **DEBUG** menu, click **Start Without Debugging**.

    >**Note:** The browser displays a list of restaurants in **JSON** format.

3. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Close**.

#### Task 3: Change an action to return data in XML format

1. In the **Restaurant - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, right-click **Server**, and then click **Manage NuGet Packages**.

2. In the **NuGet Package Manager: XmlFormatExample** window, click **Browse**.

3. In the **Search** text box, type **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.Xml**, and then press Enter.

4. Click **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Formatters.Xml**, select version **2.1.0**, and then click **Install.**

5. If a **Preview Changes** dialog box appears, click **OK**.

6. If a **License Acceptance** dialog box appears, click **I Accept**.

7. Close the **NuGet Package Manager: XmlFormatExample** window.

8. In the **XmlFormatExample - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, click **Startup.cs**.

9. In the **Startup.cs** code window, locate the following code: 
  ```cs
       services.AddMvc();
```
10. Replace the selected code with the following code:
  ```cs
       services.AddMvc().AddXmlSerializerFormatters();
```

11. In the **Restaurant - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, under **Server**, under **Controllers** click **RestaurantBranchesController**.

12. In the **RestaurantBranchesController.cs** code window, locate the following code:
  ```cs
       [HttpGet]
       public ActionResult<List<RestaurantBranch>> Get()
```
13. Replace the selected code with the following code:
  ```cs
       [HttpGet]
       [Produces("application/xml")]
       public ActionResult<List<RestaurantBranch>> Get()
```

#### Task 4: Run the application

1. In the **WebApiExample - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **FILE** menu, click **Save All**.

2. In the **WebApiExample - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **DEBUG** menu, click **Start Without Debugging**.

    >**Note:** The browser displays a list of restaurants in **XML** format.

3. In **Microsoft Edge**, click **Close**.

#### Task 5: Add an action that gets a parameter to a Web API application

1. In the **Restaurant - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, under **Server**, under **Controllers** click **RestaurantBranchesController**.

2. In the **RestaurantBranchesController.cs** code window, ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **Get** action code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code:
  ```cs
       [HttpGet("{id}")]
       public ActionResult<RestaurantBranch> GetById(int id)
       {
       }
```
3. In the **GetById** action code block, type the following code:
  ```cs
       var restaurant = _context.RestaurantBranches.FirstOrDefault(p => p.Id == id);
       if (restaurant == null)
       {
           return NotFound();
       }

       return restaurant;
```

#### Task 6: Run the application


#### Task 7: Add a Post action to a Web API application


