# Module 12: Performance and Communication

# Lab: Performance and Communication

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

1. Ensure that you have cloned the **20486D** directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. 
**(https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486D-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles)**

### Exercise 1: Implementing a Caching Strategy

#### Task 1: Add a cache tag helper to a view

1. In the **File Explorer**, navigate to **Allfiles\Mod13\Labfiles\01_ElectricStore_begin\ElectricStore**, and then copy the address in the address bar.

2. Go to **Start**, and then type **cmd**.

3. Under **Best match**, right-click **Command Prompt**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

4. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

5. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.
  ```cs
       cd {copied folder path}
```

>**Note:** If the **{copied folder path}** is different from the disk drive where the **Command Prompt** is located, then you should type **{disk drive}:** before typing the **cd  {copied folder path}** command.

6. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter.
  ```cs
       npm install
```
>**Note:** If warning messages are shown in the **Command Prompt** you can ignore them.

7. Close the window.

8. In the **File Explorer**, navigate to **Allfiles\Mod13\Labfiles\01_ElectricStore_begin**, and then double-click **IceCreamCompany.sln**.

9. In the **ElectricStore - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, on the **TOOLS** menu, click **Options**.

10. In the **Options** dialog box, in the **Search Options** text box, type **Web Package Management**, and then press Enter.

11. In the **Locations of external tools** list box, select **$(PATH)**, press the **Ap arrow** button until **$(PATH)** is at the top of the list, and then click **OK**.

12. In the **ElectricStore - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, in **Solution Explorer**, click **package.json**.

13. Examine the **package.json** code window.

      >**Note:** There are dependencies to the **jquery**, **jquery-validation**, **jquery-validation-unobtrusive**, **bootstrap** and **popper.js** packages.


#### Task 2: Run the application

#### Task 3: Insert an item to a memory cache

#### Task 4: Show if there is a value in memory cache in a view

#### Task 5: Retrieve an item from a memory cache

#### Task 6: Run the application


### Exercise 2: Managing State

#### Task 1: Enable working with sessions

#### Task 2: Write the content of the first controller

#### Task 3: Run the application

#### Task 4: Write the content of the second controller

#### Task 5: Run the application and navigate from view to view


### Exercise 3: Two-Way Communication 

#### Task 1: Add a SignalR Hub class named ChatHub

#### Task 2: Implement the ChatHub class

#### Task 3: Register the ChatHub in the Startup class

#### Task 4: Add an HTML page

#### Task 5: Write the JavaScript code to connect to the server

#### Task 6: Run the application
