# Module 4: Developing Controllers

# Lab: Developing Controllers

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: **60 minutes**

### Preparation Steps

1.	Ensure that you have cloned the 20486D directory from GitHub. It contains the code segments for this course's labs and demos. https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20486D-DevelopingASPNETMVCWebApplications/tree/master/Allfiles.

2. Go to **Allfiles\Mod04\Labfiles\01_WorldJourney_begin**, and then double-click **WorldJourney.sln**.

### Exercise 1: Adding Controllers and Actions to an MVC Application

#### Task 1: Add controllers to an MVC application.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **WorldJourney**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Folder**.

2. In the **NewFolder** box, type **Controllers**, and then press Enter.

3. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **Controllers** folder, point to  **Add**, and then click **Controller**.

4. In the **Add Scaffold** dialog box, click **MVC Controller - Empty**, and then click **Add**.

5. In the **Controller name** text box of the **Add Empty MVC Controller** dialog box, type **HomeController**, and then click **Add**.

6. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **Controllers** folder, point to  **Add**, and then click **Controller**.

7. In the **Add Scaffold** dialog box, click **MVC Controller - Empty**, and then click **Add**.

8. In the **Controller name** text box of the **Add Empty MVC Controller** dialog box, type **CityController**, and then click **Add**.

#### Task 2: Add actions to a controller.

1. In the **CityController** class code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
```
2. Ensure that the mouse cursor is at the end of the **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc** namespace, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       using System.IO;
       using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting;
       using WorldJourney.Models;
```

3. In the **CityController** class code block, in the **Index** action code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       return View();
```
4. Place the mouse cursor before the located code, and type the following code.

  ```cs
       ViewData["Page"] = "Search city";
```

5. In the **CityController** code window, Ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **Index** action code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Details()
       {
       }
```
6. In the **Details** action code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       ViewData["Page"] = "Selected city";
       City city = null;
       if (city == null)
       {
            return NotFound();
       }
            
       return View(city);

```
7. In the **CityController** code window, Ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **Details** action code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult GetImage()
       {
       }
```

8. In the **GetImage** action code block, type the following code.

  ```cs
       ViewData["Message"] = "display Image";
       City requestedCity = null;
       string fullPath = "";
       if (requestedCity != null)
       {

           FileStream fileOnDisk = new FileStream(fullPath, FileMode.Open);
           byte[] fileBytes;
           using (BinaryReader br = new BinaryReader(fileOnDisk))
           {
              fileBytes = br.ReadBytes((int)fileOnDisk.Length);
           }
           return File(fileBytes, requestedCity.ImageMimeType);
        }
        else
        {
            return NotFound();
        }
```

#### Task 3: Change actions to get a parameter.

1. In the **CityController** class code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Details()
```

2. Replace the selected code with the following code. 

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Details(int? id)
```

3. In the **CityController** class code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult GetImage()
```

4. Replace the selected code with the following code. 

  ```cs
       public IActionResult GetImage(int? cityId)
```

#### Task 4: Change an action to redirect to another action in another controller.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, expand **Controllers**, and then click **HomeController.cs**.

2. In the **HomeController** code window, in the **Index** action code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       return View();
```
3.  Replace the selected code with the following code.

  ```cs
       return RedirectToAction("Index", "City");
```

#### Task 5: Use a service.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, under **Controllers**, click  **CityController.cs**.

2. In the **CityController** class code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Index()
```

3. Place the mouse cursor before the located code, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
       private IData _data;
       private IHostingEnvironment _environment;

       public CityController(IData data, IHostingEnvironment environment)
       {
            _data = data;
            _environment = environment;
            _data.CityInitializeData();
       }
```

4. In the **Details** action code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       City city = null;
```

5. Replace the selected code with the following code.

  ```cs
       City city = _data.GetCityById(id);
``` 
6.  In the **GetImage** action code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       City requestedCity = null;
```

7. Replace the selected code with the following code.

  ```cs
       City requestedCity = _data.GetCityById(cityId);
``` 

8. In the **GetImage** action code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       string fullPath = "";
```

9. Replace the selected code with the following code.

  ```cs
       string webRootpath = _environment.WebRootPath;
       string folderPath = "\\images\\";
       string fullPath = webRootpath + folderPath + requestedCity.ImageName;
``` 

#### Task 6: Store the result in a ViewBag property.

1. In the **CityController** class code block, in the **Details** action code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       return View(city);
```

2. Place the mouse cursor before the located code, and type the following code.

  ```cs
       ViewBag.Title = city.CityName;
``` 

#### Task 7: Run the application.

1. On the **FILE** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

    >**Note:** The browser displays the **Index** action result inside the **City** Controller.

3. In the Microsoft Edge window, on the Earth image click the **London** area, note the red arrow in the center of the Earth image.
 
    >**Note:** The browser displays the **Details** action result inside the **City** Controller.

4. In the Microsoft Edge window, click **Close**.

5. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney (Running) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Stop Debugging**.

>**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to create MVC controllers that implements common actions for the City model class in the application. 

### Exercise 2: Configuring Routes by Using the Routing Table

#### Task 1: Add a controller with an action.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **Controllers** folder, point to  **Add**, and then click **Controller**.

2. In the **Add Scaffold** dialog box, click **MVC controller - Empty**, and then click **Add**.

3. In the **Controller name** text box of the **Add Empty MVC Controller** dialog box, type **TravelerController**, and then click **Add**.

4. In the **TravelerController** class code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Index()
       {
            return View();
       }
```
5. Replace the selected code with the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Index(string name)
       {
          ViewBag.VisiterName = name;
          return View();
       }
```

#### Task 2: Run the application.

1. On the **FILE** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

3. In the Address bar of the **Microsoft Edge** window, type **http://localhost:[port]/Traveler/Index**, and then press Enter.

      >**Note:** In the next task you will register a new route with the routing table, therefore you will not need to manually write the **Traveler/Index** relative URL in the address bar of the **Microsoft Edge** window.

3. In the Microsoft Edge window, click **Close**.

4. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney (Running) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Stop Debugging**.

#### Task 3: Register new routes in the routing table.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Startup.cs**.

2. In the **Startup** class inside the **Configure** method code block, select the following code.

  ```cs
       app.UseMvcWithDefaultRoute();
```
3. Replace the selected code with the following code.

  ```cs
       app.UseMvc(routes =>
            {
                routes.MapRoute(
                     name: "TravelerRoute",
                     template: "{controller}/{action}/{name}",
                     defaults: new { controller = "Traveler", action = "Index", name = "Katie Bruce" });

                routes.MapRoute(
                    name: "defaultRoute",
                    template: "{controller}/{action}/{id?}",
                    defaults: new { controller = "Home", action = "Index" },
                    constraints: new { id = "[0-9]+" });
            });
```
>**Note:** You can replace the default name **Katie Bruce** with your name.

#### Task 4: Run the application and verify the new route works.

1. On the **FILE** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

    >**Note:** The browser displays the **Index** action view result, inside the **Traveler** Controller. The name shown in the title comes from the new registered route in the routing table named **TravelerRoute**.

3. In the Microsoft Edge window, click **Close**.

4. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney (Running) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Stop Debugging**.

>**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to register new custom routes in the request pipeline of the application.

### Exercise 3: Configuring Routes Using Attributes

#### Task 1: Apply custom routes to a controller using attributes.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, under **Controllers**, click  **CityController.cs**.

2. In the **Index** action code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Index()
```

3. Place the mouse cursor before the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       [Route("WorldJourney")]
```  

4. In the **Details** action code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       public IActionResult Details(int? id)
```

5. Place the mouse cursor before the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       [Route("CityDetails/{id?}")]
```     
 
#### Task 2: Run the application and verify the new routes work.

1. On the **FILE** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

3. In the Microsoft Edge window, right click, and select **View source**.

4. In the **Developer Tools** click **Elements**.

5. Press **(Ctrl + B)**.

6. Put the cursor over the **Go Next** button, and then left click.

    >**Note:** Verify in the **Developer Tools**, the **a** tag **href** attribute value which is **/WorldJourney**.

7. In the **Developer Tools** click **Close**.

8. Click the **Go Next** button. 

    >**Note:** Verify that the new route works. The address bar of the Microsoft Edge window is **http://localhost:[port]/WorldJourney**, as a result of applying custom route to a **CityController** in the **Index** action using attributes.

9. In the Microsoft Edge window, right click, and select **View source**.

10. In the **Developer Tools** click **Elements**.

11. Press **(Ctrl + B)**.

    >**Note:** Verify in the **Developer Tools**, under the **map** tag, inside the **area** tag the **href** of London attribute value which is **/CityDetails/2**.

12. In the Microsoft Edge window, on the Earth image click the **London** area, note the red arrow in the center of the Earth image.

    >**Note:** Verify that the new route works. The address bar of the Microsoft Edge window is **http://localhost:[port]/CityDetails/2**, as a result of applying custom route to a **CityController** in the **Details** action using attributes.

13. In the Microsoft Edge window, click **Close**.

14. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney (Running) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Stop Debugging**.

>**Results** : After completing this exercise, you will be able to add custom routes using attributes for the **CityController** in the application.

### Exercise 4: Adding an Action Filter

#### Task 1: Add an action filter class.

1. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click **WorldJourney**, point to **Add**, and then click **New Folder**.

2. In the **NewFolder** box, type **Filters**, and then press Enter.

3. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, right-click **Filters**, point to **Add**, and then click **Class**.

4. In the **Name** box of the **Add New Item – WorldJourney** dialog box, type **LogActionFilter**, and then click **Add**.

5. In the **LogActionFilter** locate the following code.

  ```cs
       using System.Threading.Tasks;
```
6. Ensure that the mouse cursor is at the end of the **using System.Threading.Tasks** namespace, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       using System.IO;
       using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting;
       using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
       using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Filters;
```

7. In the **LogActionFilter** class code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       public class LogActionFilter
```
8.  Append the following code to the existing line of code.

  ```cs
        : ActionFilterAttribute
```

9. In the **LogActionFilter** class code block, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       private IHostingEnvironment _environment;
       private string contentRootPath;
       private string logPath;
       private string fileName;
       private string fullPath;

       public LogActionFilter(IHostingEnvironment environment)
       {
            _environment = environment;
            contentRootPath = _environment.ContentRootPath;
            logPath = contentRootPath + "\\LogFile\\";
            fileName = $"log {DateTime.Now.ToString("MM-dd-yyyy-H-mm")}.txt";
            fullPath = logPath + fileName;
       }
```

#### Task 2: Add a handler for the OnActionExecuting event.

1. In the **LogActionFilter** class code block, ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **LogActionFilter** method code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public override void OnActionExecuting(ActionExecutingContext filterContext)
       {
       }
```

2. In the **OnActionExecuting** method code block, press Enter, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
       Directory.CreateDirectory(logPath);
       string actionName = filterContext.ActionDescriptor.RouteValues["action"];
       string controllerName = filterContext.ActionDescriptor.RouteValues["controller"];
       using (FileStream fs = new FileStream(fullPath, FileMode.Create))
       {
            using (StreamWriter sw = new StreamWriter(fs))
            {
                sw.WriteLine($"The action {actionName} in {controllerName} controller started, event fired: OnActionExecuting");
            }
       }
```

#### Task 3: Add a handler for the OnActionExecuted event.

1. In the **LogActionFilter** class code block, ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **OnActionExecuting** method code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public override void OnActionExecuted(ActionExecutedContext filterContext)
       {
       }
```
2. In the **OnActionExecuted** method code block, press Enter, type the following code, and then press Enter.


  ```cs
       string actionName = filterContext.ActionDescriptor.RouteValues["action"];
       string controllerName = filterContext.ActionDescriptor.RouteValues["controller"];
       using (FileStream fs = new FileStream(fullPath, FileMode.Append))
       {
            using (StreamWriter sw = new StreamWriter(fs))
            {
                sw.WriteLine($"The action {actionName} in {controllerName} controller finished, event fired: OnActionExecuted");
            }
       }
```

#### Task 4: Add a handler for the OnResultExecuted event.

1.  In the **LogActionFilter** class code block, ensure that the cursor is at the end of the **OnActionExecuted** method code block, press Enter twice, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       public override void OnResultExecuted(ResultExecutedContext filterContext)
       {     
       }
```

2. In the **OnResultExecuted** method code block, press Enter, type the following code, and then press Enter.


  ```cs
       string actionName = filterContext.ActionDescriptor.RouteValues["action"];
       string controllerName = filterContext.ActionDescriptor.RouteValues["controller"];
       ViewResult result = (ViewResult)filterContext.Result;
       using (FileStream fs = new FileStream(fullPath, FileMode.Append))
       {
            using (StreamWriter sw = new StreamWriter(fs))
            {
                sw.WriteLine($"The action {actionName} in {controllerName} controller has the following viewData : {result.ViewData.Values.FirstOrDefault()}, event fired: OnResultExecuted");
            }
       }
```

#### Task 5: Apply the action filter to the controller action.

1. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Startup.cs**.


2. Place the mouse cursor at the end of the **using WorldJourney.Models** namespace code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       using WorldJourney.Filters;
```
3. In the **Startup.cs** code window, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       services.AddSingleton<IData, Data>();
```
4. Place the mouse cursor after the located code, type the following code, and then press Enter.

  ```cs
       services.AddScoped<LogActionFilter>();
``` 

5. In the Solution Explorer pane of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, expand **Controllers**, and then click  **CityController.cs**.

6. In the **CityController.cs** code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       using WorldJourney.Models;
```
7. Ensure that the mouse cursor is at the end of the **using WorldJourney.Models** namespace, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       using WorldJourney.Filters;  
```

8. In the **CityController** class code block, locate the following code.

  ```cs
       [Route("WorldJourney")]
```

9. Place the mouse cursor before the located code, press Enter, and then type the following code.

  ```cs
       [ServiceFilter(typeof(LogActionFilter))]
``` 

#### Task 6: Run the application and verify the new filter works.

1. On the **FILE** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Save All**.

2. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Start Debugging**.

3. Click the **Go Next** button. 

4. In the Microsoft Edge window, on the Earth image click the **London** area, note the red arrow in the center of the Earth image.

5. Click the **Go Back** button.

6. In the Microsoft Edge window, click **Close**.

7. On the **DEBUG** menu of the **WorldJourney (Running) - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Stop Debugging**.

8. On the **FILE** menu of the **WorldJourney - Microsoft Visual Studio** window, click **Exit**.

9. Navigate to **Allfiles\Mod04\Labfiles\01_WorldJourney_begin\WorldJourney\LogFile**, click on the **Text file**. 

    >**Note:** The **Text file** displays the new filter result.

>**Results** : After completing this exercise, you should have created an action filter class that logs the details of actions, controllers, and parameters to external file whenever an action is called.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the  [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are  **not**  included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.